In this lecture, you'll learn about congestion management and how to configure cuing on your Cisco
devices.
When we talk about congestion management, we are talking about queuing service, some congestion on
the big switch.
There's more traffic coming in than it's able to send out.
So it has to buffer that traffic.
It has to put it into acute congestion.
Management is manipulating the queue so that you give better service to the traffic that requires it.
There's two types of queuing policies that are commonly used Virchow CBW, RFQ, which is Class-Based
weighted fare queuing and queue, which is low latency queuing with CBW, RFQ.
It gives bond with God and Ts to specify traffic types.
So when you've got congestion, you can see for this particular type of traffic, I'm going to give
it so much of the available bandwidth and we'll queue below it.
And she queuing is Class-Based wait for queuing with a priority queue.
So this is good.
The configurations at exactly the same is just the AOL queue has got an additional line on there where
you can give priority to a type of traffic traffic in the priority you sent before other traffic to
a with AOL queue.
You can have a broader issue there which you'll probably voice and Bedwin for your data applications.
You can give them bandwidth guarantees.
So let's look at how this is actually configured.
And it uses the Makushi, which is the modular Kulash command line interface.
The Nkechi is built with three main sections.
First up, we have the class map which defines with traffic to take an action on.
Then there is the policy map which specifies the action to take or not traffic.
And finally, you have a service policy where you apply the policy map to an interface.
When the MQ she first came out, it was just used for.
Q Ash bought Cisco users framework for loads of other different configurations as well.
For example, if you're configuring your security policies on a school firewall, it uses the same framework
as vet loads of other things as well, use the same framework.
So it's good that when you learn it the first time and then you go and you are in a different type of
technology, that still from Cisco, very often it uses the same framework.
So it makes it easy to are not new technology.
Okay, let's look at an actual example and a look at the configuration for base.
So we're for example, we've got the HQ on the left, we've got a branch on the right, and we've got
PCs and IP phones in both locations.
We send data and we send voice between the two locations.
We've looked at the calls that we're making between the locations, and we've seen that we need to support
10 concurrent calls between the HQ and the branch over that one link.
For our example, each call is taking twenty five point six kilobits per second.
And I use this to make the maths really easy.
If you are if you do work with voice, you see that different codex, which means how we convert the
actual spoken voice into the ones and always digital uses a Kodak.
I'm different codecs can use different bandwidth.
For example, here let's actually the each call is twenty five point six K.
We need to support ten concurrent calls between sites so twenty five point six equals two hundred and
fifty six K.
So we provision two hundred and fifty six kilobits per second bandwidth for our voice calls.
We also analyzed the data traffic between the two sites and in this example we have determined that
512 K is required for data on average.
So 512 plus 256 equals seven hundred and sixty eight K.
So that is the bandwidth on the link that we prevision from the service provider.
I know I'm using V we were numbers here, but big numbers make my head hurt so it's easier to understand
and explain using these all the numbers for the real world deployment.
Just make the numbers bigger.
It works exactly the same way.
OK, so we've provisioned our bandwidth at 768 K and we know that that is going to be enough bandwidth
for normal operations.
But we also know that data is sometimes going to burst above 512 K during busy periods.
And during those periods we could also have those ten concurrent.
So when that happens, the link is going to get congested.
We don't want to use first in first out queuing because if we do that, the voice pockets are going
to get stuck behind the pockets and we're going to have bad quality phone calls.
We want to bump voice Boyzvoice packets straight to the front of the queue so they don't get delayed
and we get good quality calls.
So let's look at the configuration.
So the first part of the discussion is reclass map, where we specify the traffic that we're interested
in our config.
There is a map and then give it a descriptive name.
Anything you want.
I've called it voice payload March IPD, PEF, a name class map call signaling March IPD, SGP Shickshinny.
The IP phones are marking their own pockets, so whenever a phone generates a pocket which is spoken
voice, it will market is DPF.
Whenever it generates a signalling packet to set up the call or take it down, it's going to market
Oswestry.
So we're looking for those particular packets coming from the IP phone.
We recognize them with our classmates.
Next thing that we're going to do is we're going to specify what we're going to do to that topic in
our policy map.
So I've got a policy map.
I've called it one edge.
Again, call it anything you want.
Descriptive name, then class voice payload, which references the class map that we configured already.
And then I say priority percent.
Thirty three priority means this traffic's the front of the queue whenever there is a queue.
So if there's no congestion, this does not take effect.
But when there is congestion, the queuing policy will kick in and any voice pocket that comes in queue
will now be bumped to the front of the queue with provisions 256 K for our voice calls, which is one
third of the 768 Kilink, which is why I've said priority percent 33 Savoy's packets will go straight
to the front of the queue and are guaranteed thirty three percent of the bandwidth.
Next, I also I want to give a bandwidth guarantee to my colleague signaling traffic.
This traffic is not too important, so it doesn't need to go in to HQ.
If it gets delayed, then the call might just take a fraction of a second longer set up, but it will
still work just fine.
But I want to make sure that signalling package do get there, so that's why I'm giving them a bind.
We've got a..
This package doesn't require much bandwidth.
So real world, you would figure out exactly how much bandwidth you do require here.
We've figured out that it's Bonwit percent five the require.
So now whenever there's congestion interface, our voice, people with packets go straight to the front
of the queue.
They're guaranteed 33 percent of the bandwidth as well are called signalling packets.
Don't go straight to the front.
The cube, they're guaranteed five percent of the bandwidth.
And if you require more, the signaling packets can take more bandwidth than not as well.
If it's available, the priority queue is guaranteed.
Thirty five percent and it's unlimited to 33 percent as well, because if it was able to burst up to
100 percent, then it would take all of the bandwidth and nothing else would ever get out of it.
So it would break all of our traffic to the prosecutor.
It's guaranteed that much and it's also limited to that much as well for the bandwidth statements as
guaranteed that much.
And it can go higher if it's available.
OK, so that is us giving the required service to the voice payload and Nicole shingling.
Next is class class default.
Class default means all of our traffic that we haven't specified higher up with a class map.
So everything else and then we see fair queue.
This is a best practice to command to put in.
It's a more fair queuing policy.
Even first than first out is first in.
First out tends to penalize small pockets.
Unfairly, unfairly.
Fair queue is a better queuing mechanism, so it's best practice to always come on in.
And then finally, we need to apply the policy to the interface.
If you're ever working in QC, in the real world, this is the it's really easy to forget because you
do the class map where you see the traffic you're looking for when you do the policy map, where you
see what you're going to do to it in any anyway.
OK, I'm done.
And it's easy to forget to put on reserves policy.
If you do that, nothing happens.
You have to apply for a service policy for this to take effect.
This is done under the interface.
So not example, it's interface zero zero zero zero.
We say bandwidth seven six eight.
You have to do this if you're using a to eight percent.
So it knows what this percent is.
33 percent of 760 is two, five, six.
That's where it gets the value from the bottom which statement on there.
And then finally to apply it, we say service policy I one edge, which is the name of the policy map.
OK, so that is the whole thing.
If you missed this earlier for the Shishani exam, you do not need to know this configuration.
I'm showing it here because I think it makes it a lot easier to understand what's happening when you
see the configuration, but you don't need to memorize this for the exam, for the exam.
You need to understand all the things.
You need to understand what QSI is.
You need to understand the different cues.
Mechanisms like classification and marking are congestion management, which is cuing and also policing
and shaping, which is going to come up in the next lecture.
So you need to know the city, but you don't need to know the configuration.
You'll need to know that when you move on to specializing in some of the other trucks are going on to
the S.P. level.
OK, so that was congestion management and queuing and algae and not next lecture for policing and shaping.